oh boy
check this out a new continent is
discovered in the Pacific Ocean but you
don't want a vacation there you know
people use plastic every day it's cheap
convenient and easy to produce isn't it
here are some facts to show you how
popular this material is all over the
world approximately 1 trillion single
use bags made from plastic are thrown
away every year in other words this is 2
million plastic bags a minute in 2016
people bought drinks in 480 billion
plastic bottles but 10 years earlier the
number was much lower 300 billion
everyday people from all over the world
used more than half a million plastic
straws as for bubble wrap the amount
produced in just one year would be
enough to cover our planet around the
equator and you'd be able to do this not
once but 10 times 500 billion plastic
cups are used and disposed of annually
coffee lovers use 16 billion disposable
coffee cups every year these are
estimated separately as they're coated
with a plastic that laminates their
insides the lids are also produced from
plastic more than 14 million tons of
plastic foam polystyrene are
manufactured every year Americans get
rid of 25 billion styrofoam cups in one
year when you order takeout remember
this number 269,000 this is how much
take out plastic waste in tons has
already entered the world's ocean now
you might ask why are you telling me
about plastic waste when I'm all set to
watch a video about a new continent well
this is a reasonable question but it
wouldn't arise if you knew that this new
continent is an island that consists
solely of garbage
and plastic waste in fact there are
three huge garbage islands in the world
in the central North Pacific Ocean in
the Indian Ocean and in the Atlantic
Ocean to put it in a nutshell
a huge portion of the garbage we've just
spoken about ends up in the ocean the
distribution of this plastic waste is
extremely uneven due to winds and
currents garbage tends to gather in
particular places the biggest of the
three garbage islands is situated in the
North Pacific Ocean it's called the
Great Pacific Garbage Patch orgy pgp it
was first noticed in the 1980s but it
wasn't worth much worrying about at that
time however the latest estimates have
thrown researchers off base scientists
have found out that the size of the
garbage island is currently more than
six hundred thousand square miles that's
four to sixteen times bigger than
previous reports stated this huge
territory is larger than Alaska which is
570 thousand square miles
bigger than such significantly sized
countries as Iran and Mongolia twice as
big as Texas and three times bigger than
France according to the journal
scientific reports there are more than
1.8 trillion pieces of plastic that have
accumulated in this area this debris
weighs about 90,000 tons this equals the
weight of 500 jumbo jets boy that's a
lot of junk what exactly is this garbage
most pieces are tiny particles of
plastic which are smaller than 1/10 of
an inch nowadays you can find such micro
plastics even in bottled water
these particles account for
approximately 8% of the total mass 46%
of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch is
fishing nets
the rest is other types of plastic waste
environmentalists believe that more than
eight million tons of plastic get into
the ocean every year and this whopping
number is just three percent of the
world's waste the main polluters are
Asian countries and China toss the
the industry is at its peak there and
environmental problems take a backseat
well for those who believe that our
planet is suffering from overpopulation
new continents may seem good and welcome
but not when these continents are made
of garbage
why is plastic in the ocean so dangerous
well you probably understand that there
is more to it than just the issue of
aesthetics here are the more serious
problems connected with the plastic
pollution of the ocean pieces of plastic
become extremely fragile under the
influence of sunlight they also collide
with other debris or rocks as a result
tiny particles of plastic appear what
happens next well sea inhabitants and
birds munch on these tiny pieces of
plastic thinking they are something
edible in most cases these plastic
objects kill the animals or get stuck in
their bodies moreover some types of
plastic release toxic substances which
poison creatures that have been careless
enough to swallow a foreign object
during its 30-year history the
International Coastal Cleanup has
reported about 700 species that have
been killed or hurt by marine waste
these species vary from tiny plankton to
huge whales here are some sad statistics
100,000 marine animals and more than 1
million seabirds die every year simply
because they have eaten something they
shouldn't have
namely plastic shockingly some marine
species are on the brink of extinction
right now and the reason is the plastic
pollution of the ocean now when fish
feed on plastic it influences the whole
food chain smaller creatures have
terrible digestive problems which of
course aren't treated so they die from
intestinal injuries but this also
spreads the risk all over the food chain
involving larger fish and marine mammals
as we've already mentioned some types of
plastic are toxic in addition plastic
has the ability to absorb such poisonous
substances as mercury what do you think
will happen if you cook a fish that has
plastic inside it for dinner
see how things can get extremely
dangerous people keep fishing in
polluted waters which is why there's a
high possibility that some harmful
substances will find their way to your
dinner table toxins found in different
types of plastic can cause cancer lead
to problems with the immune system and
provoke birth defects now there's one
more problem that grows proportionally
to the amount of plastic waste in the
ocean sea animals get trapped in fishing
nets and other garbage such as plastic
tapes and bags and as a result the
inhabitants of the ocean are unable to
free themselves and die of hunger birds
often choke to death after trying to
swallow a bright object that has caught
their eye many also suffocate after
tangling themselves in debris there have
been several studies that have estimated
that 44 percent of sea birds as well as
sea turtles have plastic objects in or
around their bellies so as you can see
the problem of plastic garbage in the
ocean is extremely serious some
researchers estimate that by 2050 the
total mass of the waste in the ocean
will be equal to the total mass of all
fish some countries are ready to
announce an ecological disaster let's
look at Bali Indonesia this is one of
the most popular surfing destinations in
the world until recently there have been
perfect conditions for relaxing and
practicing your surfing skills but
nowadays kuta one of the best places for
surfing has become infamous for its
unbelievably polluted Beach some days
this long and sandy strand is clean and
beautiful but you might arrive there the
next morning to find the beach covered
with garbage Indonesian authorities have
recently declared a garbage emergency
and it's high time measures were taken
with
than 100 tons of waste being brought
ashore everyday to beaches from Sameach
to jimbaran to kuta the ocean around
these places has already been given the
nickname the plastic sea so to prevent
our beautiful oceans from turning into
plastic waste deposits people need to do
something there are several ways to
solve this problem people can find a way
to remove the garbage that is already in
the ocean in this case the removed
plastic could find new uses in different
spheres for example you may no shima an
island in Tokyo Bay was created from the
waste landfill nowadays there's a
stadium a museum and a park on this
artificial island another way out is to
decrease pollution or stop it completely
this can be done by educating people and
starting to use only biodegradable
plastic this kind of plastic turns into
dust in just one to five years still
there must be specific conditions for it
to degrade for instance water and
ultraviolet light there might also be
some more extravagant options there is
at least one living creature on earth
that is happy to be surrounded by as
much plastic as possible this wondrous
creature is the larvae of the wax moth
and it needs just 40 minutes to eat a
sizable hole in a plastic bag
the larvae easily decomposed regular
polyethylene products scientists don't
yet know how this phenomenon works but
perhaps this is how mother nature tries
to keep herself healthy well whatever
the solution is it's time for people to
take action to protect our planet from
suffocating under piles of plastic
garbage press the like button if you
always try to be considerate and do
something to keep our planet safe would
you agree to become a volunteer and
clean beaches for a month tell us in the
comments below and don't forget to
subscribe to our channel help keep your
planet healthy and stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]